Team Contract

**Goals Statement**  
We believe in using this project as a multifaceted learning experience. Each of us is approaching this with the goal of growing as developers, whether that be improving our technical knowledge, the quality of our code, or the guidelines of good project architecture. But ultimately, we believe that this project provides an opportunity to learn the integrity required of an effective engineering team. Together, we hope to learn how to best communicate, work together, and most importantly, code from the heart in order to create a working website.

	**The** **Strengths of Each of the Team Members**  
**Matthew:** My general strengths include strong note taking skills, communication skills, working well collaboratively, persevering in the face of adversity in programming projects, and retaining information very well. In terms of programming strengths, I have experience from taking programming courses at Carleton and high school, including Data Structures and Programming Languages Design and Implementation. From this, I gained knowledge of Python and data structures that we will be using to complete this project. I also learned about how to make code more efficient. I am good at tracing back through my code to find and address errors in my code, navigating the code that my teammates write, making suggestions for them or pointing out errors, and I can effectively communicate and explain what my code is doing. 

**Raaid:** I have work experience through interning at UCSC Applied the Wave Function Collapse (WFC) algorithm, traditionally used for generating visual game assets, to music metacreation and modeled the relationships between musical elements as adjacency rules and used these models to generate new songs within the same genres as the original collection using Python. Additionally, I have also interned at a FinTech startup where I job shadowed the creation of that startup’s website – this has given me experience with full stack development. I also extensively worked on Leetcode over the summer and honed my skills in optimizing algorithm efficiency by considering the Big O time and space complexity of numerous data structure problems, and I believe this will help me with backend development, which we are going to be using Python for. At Carleton, I have taken a Social Computing course that will allow me to implement my knowledge in thoughtfully creating an engaging user experience.

**Omar:** I worked for a nonprofit legal firm over the summer making programs in Python and Javascript that serve an industry my boss dubbed as “30 years behind in tech,” which required me to think a lot more creatively and come up with software solutions that are beneficial, time-saving, and intuitive to use by staff members who are not necessarily tech-savvy. My communication skills grew as a result because before delivering software, I had to get a lot of feedback first to make sure it not only is functional but also is usable and appropriate – especially when it comes to developing a user-friendly front-end and overall user interface. Working for a mission-oriented nonprofit also taught me how to think for software ideas that serve the community; that brainstorming, I believe, is now one of my biggest strengths. Other than that, I have taken a handful of Computer Science classes at Carleton and worked within various teams in those classes on projects that are very meaningful to me.

**Christian:** My experience includes some coursework here at Carleton College, most important of which is Database Structures with Dave Musicant. Through that class, I not only became familiar with SQL, but I learned the principles of database structure and efficiency, such as reducing normal forms or optimized join algorithms. I have worked in more professional settings as well, such as this past summer, in my employment with the Carleton Makerspace. There, I developed projects in multiple languages, such as the new request board, which used JS, and the instrument shop access control, built in C++. Most relevant to this project, however, was working with the neuroscience department, where I spent time solving issues in their fly tracking project, built in Electron using HTML, CSS, and JS. 

**Leveraging the Strengths of Our Team**  
	Throughout the course of working on this project, we will utilize each of our strengths to effectively complete the project. Given our prior experiences in the workforce and in programming courses, we plan to all contribute to the backend of the project, as this is the area where we have the most experience.  As we learn the principles of software design, we will delegate front-end tasks and help each other out where needed. Assigning roles for the team at this moment does not make sense since we all have minimal experience working on front-end parts of projects. Additionally, our back-end experience is not too dissimilar to the point that any one of us is particularly stronger in a particular area of programming. We may decide to come up with roles over the course of the project, if it seems necessary and will make work more efficient, but for now, we do not know enough about the project to do so.

**What expectations will guide our team?**

* We will have regular check-in meetings where we update each other on developments and plan for the future. Other meetings to work together will be set up as necessary.  
  * This is in accordance with Agile design principles of small design sprints and frequent planning  
* We will communicate with each other via a group chat. In the future, we may consider using Slack to organize our communication  
* We will not have defined roles for at least the start of the project, as discussed in the previous section.  
* We will ensure that communication stays respectful by encouraging people to think about whether what they are about to say is true, kind, and necessary.  
* If a team member is not communicating, we will attempt to call them and/or talk to them in class. If they still fail to communicate, then we will talk with Jean about the situation.  
* If someone cannot physically show up (if they have COVID, etc), we will set up Zoom or Google meetings to keep steadily working on the project.  
* We will have a shared Google Drive folder for team members to upload specific files as necessary.  
* Our main goal with dividing work will be to minimize overlapping work and potential conflicts. We will thus be dividing work into individual sections and rotating every so often.  
* We plan to make decisions on the project by using majority rule.   
* Due to our meeting structure, we will be having regular progress checks and setting small goals for everyone to be achieved by the next meeting. The smaller goals will also allow us to track progress in a granular fashion, and we will be able to watch participation with great accuracy.  
* If a team member is not following through with their responsibilities, then we will have a conversation with them in a mandatory team meeting to make sure that they stay on track and if they do not respond to that, we will get Jean involved.  
* If there is a conflict or disagreement within the team, we will pick one person’s side so that we avoid a stalemate and can keep making progress. If there is a very intense conflict, we will notify Jean about the steps to take.

